Coursework Brief
Task To Be Done
You are given the ML Coursework Dataset (access it via the link) to build a multilayer perceptron
model that can be used for forecasting the export value of crop products for a geographical region
three years into the future (e.g. given historical data up until or at Year 2984, your model can predict
the export value of crop products for Year 2987). Your model is allowed to be either a regression
model or a classification model. For more information about the dataset, see the README file
included in the dataset folder.
What To Submit
You are to submit THREE separate documents clarified in items A-C below. Do NOT submit them as
zipped (or other compressed) files. Make sure the file name and content for each of the 3 files
indicate your Candidate No. (and not your name).
A. (90 marks) Report - Prepare a report that answers ALL 4 questions below. Use the EXACT
question themes highlighted in bold as section titles for your report, so that your report has 4
(titled) sections exactly. Submit the document as a single pdf file.
1. (15 marks) Performance
• (8 marks max) Report the performance of your model, and also describe (using
maths formulae if appropriate) how the reported performance was computed
from the model outputs.
• (7 marks max) State clearly the total number of instances used and then the
number of instances in your training and test sets and how these sets were
derived from the given data.
2. (20 marks) MLP model
• (11 marks max) Describe your multilayer perceptron (MLP) model, making sure
to specify (including maths formulae when appropriate) at the very least the
activation function for its output layer, the loss function used to train it, and the
number of units in its output layer.
• (9 marks max) List and describe the steps that you took to prevent overfitting
for your model (using maths formulae when appropriate).
3. (35 marks) Features & Labels
Machine Learning @ University of Sussex – 2024 (Temitayo Olugbade)
• (10 marks max) Describe (as a list) how the label(s) was/were derived from the
given data (using maths formulae when appropriate).
• (25 marks max) Report the features that you used for your model, making sure
to specify the features used and the total number used, clarify why these
features were selected, and describe (as a list) how they were derived from the
given data, if applicable.
4. (20 marks) Preprocessing
• (20 marks max) List and describe the preprocessing that you did on your
features for building your model (using maths formulae when appropriate).
